README.md, before:

# foundry-do

Project can be used to deploy [foundry-vtt](https://foundryvtt.com/) to [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/).

Foundry can be accessed by the domain name that is passed.

Foundry will be deployed behind nginx with SSL certs.

Daily backups of Foundry's (user) data directory will be taken and pushed into a Digital Ocean Space if credentials are provided when running Ansible.

## Requirements

* A Digital Ocean account
  * Add an SSH key
  * Generate an access token and spaces tokens
* A Foundry license
* [terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) v0.13.5+ installed
* A [Terraform Cloud](https://app.terraform.io/) account
* Python3 and pip3 installed

## Setup

1. Change values in `terraform/deployment/backend.tfvars` to reflect your (terraform cloud) org and workspace, and `terraform/deployment/variables.tfvars` as needed (i.e, SSH allowlist)
1. Login to Terrafrom Cloud with `terrafrom login`
1. Set the env var `DIGITALOCEAN_TOKEN` to an access token to your Digital Ocean account, and `SPACES_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `SPACES_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` to the spaces access keys.
1. Set the env var `DOMAIN` to the your domain, and `FOUNDRY_ADMIN_KEY` to the administration key you would like to use with foundry.
1. Set the env var `EMAIL` to your email address (used for certbot registration).
1. Download FoundryVTT for Node and put it in this folder, with `foundry.yml`.

## Deployment

To deploy a new space, and droplet with firewalls to Digital Ocean:

1. Run `make plan`
1. Run `make apply`

## Install and Configure

Ansible is used to install Foundry, certbot, and nginx onto the droplet.

To install ansible into a virtual environment run `make pip`.

Ensure that spaces credentials are set in the environment, as well as the `FOUNDRY_ADMIN_KEY`, then run `make ansible`.

**BEST PRACTICE:** Change the Spaces credentials in the environment variable to one dedicated for the droplet.

## TODO

3. provide better way of gathering user variables

Commit message:

Fix initial deployment process instructions.
Provide setup.sh to help install terraform, a venv and create an
environment file. Seperate credentials used by spaces backup agent and
fx naming conventions.

README.md, after:

# foundry-do

Project can be used to deploy [foundry-vtt](https://foundryvtt.com/) to [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/).

Foundry can be accessed by the domain name that is passed.

Foundry will be deployed behind nginx with SSL certs.

Daily backups of Foundry's (user) data directory will be taken and pushed into a Digital Ocean Space if credentials are provided when running Ansible.

## Requirements

* A Digital Ocean account
  * Add an SSH key
  * Generate an access token and spaces tokens
* A Foundry license
* Python3 and pip3 installed
* [terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) v0.13.5+ installed
* A [Terraform Cloud](https://app.terraform.io/) account

## Setup

1. Download FoundryVTT for Node and put it in this folder, with `foundry.yml`.
1. Run `./setup.sh` to ensure terraform is installed/logged in and to create an environment file.
1. Run `source .env` to use the environment file.
1. Change values in `terraform/deployment/backend.tfvars` to reflect your (terraform cloud) org and workspace, and `terraform/deployment/variables.tfvars` as needed (domain, SSH allowlist, etc.).
1. Plan the terraform changes by running `make plan`, this shows the changes that will occur on Digital Ocean.
1. Apply the terrafrom changes by running `make apply`, this creates the resources on Digital Ocean.
1. Active the python virtual environment by running `source venv/bin/activate`.
1. Install python requirements by running `make pip`
1. Install/configure FoundryVTT on the droplet by running `make ansible`

### Environment Variables

The `.env` file created exports the following:

| variable                | stage   | use                                        |
|-------------------------|---------|--------------------------------------------|
| DIGITALOCEAN_TOKEN      | deploy  | API token to deploy resources              |
| SPACES_ACCESS_KEY_ID    | deploy  | Spaces key to create a space               |
| SPACES_SECRET_ACESS_KEY | deploy  | Spaces secret to create a space            |
| BACKUP_ACCESS_KEY_ID    | ansible | Spaces key used by backup agent            |
| BACKUP_SECRET_ACESS_KEY | ansible | Spaces secret used by backup agent         |
| EMAIL                   | ansible | email for (HTTPS) certificate registration |
| FOUNDRY_ADMIN_KEY       | ansible | FoundryVTT admin password                  |

`deploy` variables are required for terraform.
`ansible` variables are required for ansible.

## Ansible

Ansible is used to install nginx, certbot, FoundryVTT, and a backup agent onto the droplet.

To install ansible, activate a virtual environment and run `make pip`.

Ensure that `ansible` variables are set (see [above](#environment-variables) and run `make ansible`.

**NOTE:** The ansible hosts file will be generated using output from terraform.
